/*This is agenda file to ShipDataBase Project files!*/

In order to process information about ships and ship traffic for safety, secure and defence purposses 
one needs to collect and work with different data. Basicaly this data can be divided into two groups:

1. Ship static data - this is all information about ship which not changes for continuous time;
2. Ship path data - this is information about where, how and when ship moves.

Basic ship static data includes:

Ship Name - unique name given to vessel;
IMO Number - this is International Maritime Organisation Number, consists of the three letters "IMO" followed by unique seven-digit numbers, 
assigned under the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS);
MMSI Number - unique 9 digit number, given to vessels and coast stations according to GMDSS (Global Maritime Distress and Safety System).
Flag - this is the flag of the country, where ship is enlisted in maritime authority administration registers.
Ships are diferent types - general cargo, tanker, containership, passenger ship, laysure craft and so on.
Phisical dimensions - length, beam, draft, height over water and displacement are also collected as a data. 

Owner identity, master (ship kaptain) identity are also in this group, how many persons are int crew too.

About ship movement it is obligatory for every ship to have an AIS transponder onboard, this transponder gives above mentioned static data for 
the vessel and periodicly is updated by an appointed ship deck officer. 

Also AIS transponder gives some dynamic data : position - latitude, longitude,
speed over ground (SOG) - this is true speed of the vessel, given by GPS,
course over ground (COG) - this is true course of the vessel, given by GPS,

Also mentioned are next port of call (NPC), or where the vessel travel to,
estimated time of arrival - ETA, last port of call (LPC), or from where vessel
starts her voyage.

Own sensors data usualy are collected with movement data of the vessel:
track number - unique number of the track, presented on the chart,
radar track number - this is radar plot number associated with track number (usualy this is authomatic process),

M2M (mashine to maschine) this is new trend of observing ship activity by low speed satellite telematic equipment.
Usualy each telematic platform has its own unique identification number (for example DNID of Inamrsat D equipment), 
associated with particular ship.

Ships have owners, but usualy other companies uses them for transportation of goods - therefore the charterer table exists.

COI is comming from contact of interest, this is security issue, used by NATO and law enforsment authorities about particular vessels, 
connected to suspect groups or activities. It could be military ships of opposing countries also. 

CCTV means camera equipment for day/night visual observations of specific acvatories close to shore, ports or some important economic places (straits, channels, nuclear powerplants etc.)  

In a nutshell this is agenda for interpretation of data base information and structure.

    
